as little as those interactions hurt me
because
they didn't hurt me
emotionally
as little as those interactions hurt
they changed my view of human nature
like
you get on the internet
and even if you think you're cynical i
mean i've been through a lot in my life
i've been through cambodia i've been
through laos i've been through hong kong
hong kong's a rough town doing its way
guys you know what i mean i've been
through
so much in my life
and then you get on youtube
and you have to face up to the awesome
implacable spectacle of human stupidity
as never before even even in my late 30s
even in my early 40s all right
i am still
not prepared to deal with this level of
stupidity i am still
mean-spiritedness you know
the casual
cruelty from people who have nothing to
gain
[Music]
how did you learn
about stupidity
who taught you who taught you
how stupid people are i don't think you
learned it in a classroom i don't think
you learned it
in a church basement you know i don't
think the pastor of your church sat down
with you one day and said we're gonna do
a very important sermon right now it's
about stupidity
it's about something you're gonna have
to cope with
your whole life how did you learn about
malice
how did you learn about the depths of
human evil
and just how cruel one person can be to
another out of complete indifference
and these are cumulative
indifference
and stupidity how did you learn about
these things right
i feel that i
am part of the first generation who
learned about them on the internet
we all had to learn
think ain't something new that just came
out of nowhere
right
but most of you in the audience
you grew up with one vision of human
nature
being presented to you by your parents
being presented by teachers maybe being
presented by a religious leader if you
went to church or something like that
you were given a certain view of human
nature above all else by television
you watched sesame street and you think
this is how an adult behaves
this is how a child behaves
this is how an adult talks to a child
you're given a model
of normal
human intelligence
i have to say
my sense
of what a normal adult's level of
intelligence was
probably watching the nightly news like
as a child when you're a small child
do you think this person is reading a
script like is that as a child it's how
you respond to it you know i mean like
when you get older as a child you start
to analyze these things you know what
i'm saying you start to uh
relate to them in a more cynical way
perhaps right you're given
an image
of a calm
rational
collected adult
this may be a contrast to your own
parents right on the nightly news
they're talking about the atom bomb
they're talking about nuclear
explosions right that's not how my
parents talk about the atom
you know like for real but still you
have an image
of rational adulthood
presented to you in this way and then at
some point somehow you figure out this
isn't humanity at all
this isn't what my fellow human beings
are like at all
and today people
discover that
in the youtube comment section
reddit facebook
maybe on myspace
right on on twitter
[Laughter]
you know we have these attitudes
learned in childhood and you know you
can tell me it's a little bit different
from one family to the next it's a
little bit different from one
household an extra one schools isn't
next
but let's say your expectations in
making youtube videos comes straight out
of the classroom
let's say your expectation is
i prepare
to present my book report to the class
if you're a little kid this is my book
report i read
i think the first book report i ever
wrote was the autobiography
of barnum p.t barnum from the barnum and
bailey circus if not it was the
autobiography of bailey it was one of
the two guys who founded this famous
circus the barnum ability
his autobiography and i
and i always remember there was this kid
in the class
i don't know what was nothing he didn't
believe i'd read the book it was just
crazy and like i don't even know what
was he yes seriously like do you believe
i didn't write this report and he was
asking all these weird questions like
he's like well what does it say on page
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah i should i should find
that guy
i remember his first name i don't know
his last name but i could figure it out
i knew what school we were at and what
year and it's not gonna find it
look man
you screwed up my book report
all right but most of us
most of the time right
our expectation is okay i do this work
gather this information i make this
presentation i'm evaluated by the
teacher maybe months later i get a book
report
you're aware on some level you're being
judged right
but uh
you will never face the level of
animosity cruelty just just uncharitable
assumptions and judgments from the
audience that you will face frankly in
presenting the same book report here on
youtube nobody
teaches us
formally
to have charitable assumptions about
other people nobody teaches us how to
interview someone question someone or
cross-examine someone in a way that's
charitable
english is not your first language
charity has one meaning charitable has
another
i listened to an interview just a couple
hours ago
with one of the leaders of the black
lives matter movement
and the interviewer was asking
in the most charitable way possible
well look
90 million dollars have gone missing and
can't be accounted for
it was much more polite than that it's
like well look your organization the
headline number is 90 million dollars
it's been reported you purchased four
houses
[Music]
how much money did you personally make
out of this right but you've got to ask
those questions
in a charitable way and you've got to
take the answers seriously when they're
given you you can't just dismiss them
and keep on attacking the person or or
what
right or what what's the alternative
right if people can't
reason with you if you can't be
reasonable if you can't reciprocate
the level of rationality and
reasonableness there
they're generously extending to you
right then we revert to pretty
fundamentally animal behavior then we
revert to a situation where it is just
going to be brute force that resolves
the differences between us i think
that's exactly what we need
formal education on our generation now i
just say
i don't think
i don't think the past was better than
the present let's put it that way
i don't think my grandfather's
generation or my great-grandfather's
generation consisted of angels i
remember talking to an elderly buddhist
monk
and he told me that in his childhood
nobody had ever considered
putting a child on a diet
weight loss and obesity among children
didn't exist and he said they all ate
garbage though incredibly they done an
unhealthy diet in unlimited quantities
the parents didn't try to
limit and he said the reason was simple
absolutely all of our forms of play and
recreation pretty much involved physical
violence you know like they were out
wrestling in the dirt or you know with a
stick and a and a rock and the dirt
they were scrambling around
all day and all night so i i forget how
old that monk was i don't know if that
was the 1940s or i'm sorry i'd have to
think about when when it was he grew up
right so this this is one element of
generational change
people at that time were racist people
were rude people were ignorant people
didn't fight a lot you know people were
violent people had all kinds of terrible
defects of character but it's also true
that they had the experience of dealing
with other human beings face to face and
dealing with the consequences of what
they've said and done it's like hey if
you talk to me this way if you treat me
this way there are going to be
consequences and they're going to be
consequences for the both of us one of
the consequences
one of the consequences may be i never
trust you again one of the consequences
may be i never talk to you again just
invidious silence you've broken down the
circulation
okay but you know the other consequences
as i said right at the start of this
video
each and every one of these social
encounters changes our own understanding
of human nature
ultimately how we understand what it
means to be human what it means to be
alive it's a generalization based on
just a certain number of case studies
we have our parents what we think is
normal we have our teachers we have our
classmates we have what we see on tv
right
and then for my generation we get the
jarring contrast to what we see
of human nature
on the internet
um
melissa made a video just yesterday it
feels a long time ago
you know
talking about
our relationship and the video has more
than one thesis but the most interesting
one is this
by the way i wasn't involved in the the
video i literally i wasn't in the
apartment so i
the way the video was edited it might
sound like i was really involved because
my voice is in there at the beginning
but actually i had nothing to do with it
i didn't script the video i didn't you
know i mean i had nothing to do with the
conceptualization or planning of this
video in any way
um
one of the most interesting theses is
that social media can be as real as you
want it to be that youtube can be as
real
as you want it to be that we can come
out here and share our real lives it can
be completely fake it can't be complete
fraud right but we have the option
and you also have the option of creating
narrative fiction don't get me wrong
you know
can you imagine how frustrating and
discouraging it is for melissa and i to
come on the internet again and again and
keep it 100 honest keep it all the way
real
and have people insisting to us
that what we're presenting is instead
some kind of intentional deception or
fraud
and inventing in their own mind and then
popularizing with others conspiracy
theories that instead explain what's
happening on stream as representing a
totally different set of of motivations
a totally different set of circumstances
right
and and of course going through your
videos the fine-tooth comb to find
little bits and pieces of information or
evidence that will support that thesis
no matter how ludicrous no matter how
improbable
right
so some of you have been watching my
channel for a long long time
might remember this example
but back in the day i did make a
youtube video filmed inside of a walmart
in china so walmart is a big box store
they have groceries they have clothing
they have
garden gnomes you know it's a very
miscellaneous
sort of store i'm inside a walmart in
china and for the amusement of my
audience i'm filming myself reacting to
some
unbelievably disgusting food products
that are sold in china that you could
never find in that
so one of the examples is duck necks
these are the severed necks of ducks i
assume there's a factory where they
slaughter all these ducks and the neck
is the least valuable part it's like
people want to buy the other duck meat
they just
chop up the next throw it in a bag and
they sell it like a bag of potato chips
so you got a bag
it's not refrigerated
what are the chemicals added to these
duck necks that you can have it sold at
room temperature it's not in the fridge
guys it's not they had they had duck
necks i guess they're pickled that must
be one of those this is pickled duck
necks
uh they had uh
they had pigeon feet
you know they had different kinds of
claws and snouts and tails and animals
and filming this you know
most of my viewers are vegan you know
just just
and i had dead pan serious conspiracy
theories people on the internet going
through this video for evidence taking a
little bits and pieces supposedly like
contradictions like contradicting what i
said or like little things you can
notice in the background saying no
clearly this was actually filmed in
california clearly this guy's never
studied chinese he never went to china
at all this is all a cover story this is
all a conspiracy theory
so
i'm optimistic
that the next generation will be raised
being warned by their parents about this
like how can you communicate that to a
child like i'm sure so i have a daughter
i don't know when i'm next gonna get
this here how do you sit down with a
child and explain to them
no matter how reasonable you are on the
internet
other people are going to interpret what
you do in an unreasonable way and so
let's let's be real here it's not just
on the internet
it's on the internet that we see it and
we hear about it and i could now digress
into stories about people making up
gospel about me and people having whole
fantasies about my sex life and my
personal people i knew in real life
before i was on the internet it can
happen in real life that people who know
each other face to face there's no
internet involved
that they are inventing fables about
other people
and i can't say it's insanity it's just
it's an aspect of human nature that we
weren't warned about by our parents that
we didn't learn about on tv that we
weren't told about by our school
teachers or or church pastors no matter
how reasonable you are
on youtube
you can never expect the people in your
audience
to reciprocate that reasonableness to be
reasonable back you can never earn their
respect you can no matter how rational
you are in expressing your own views or
criticizing and disagreeing with the
views of others you could never expect
people to be rational back it's such a
thankless task
it's such a horrible asymmetrical
thankless that's to do that again and
again
and then get treated and return that
same way again that asymmetrical way
again again and
no matter how honest you are so no
matter how honest i am no matter how
honest melissa is people will literally
write into you claiming that your whole
life is a lie that your whole life is a
fraud that everything you said in that
video was a smoke screen and like
because so either because someone else
manipulated you into it or because you
are manipulating someone else that there
is some
ulterior motive
now we used to have
in our culture like a concept of
journalistic ethics it's dead it's gone
i don't miss it i don't lament it it's
over okay journalism r.i.p it's over you
know
but like
can you imagine the way that
interview would have gone there's a
journalist interviewing one of the
leaders of black lives matter right
if he had read the comments off of
twitter like live
while doing this interview
so it's like oh okay so look you know
people are concerned about where the
money went you seem to have bought at
least one lavish house some people said
you bought four or five houses i don't
know what's true and being reported
there people say it's a 90 million
budget nobody can account for what what
happened to the money you know what's
your explanation
and then she starts to give her her
explanation
interestingly or not her the start of
her explanations say that she has never
received a salary from the black lives
matter
organization you know it's like okay um
so here's what they say on twitter oh
you're just saying that to cover up the
fact that you got money from other
sources like
you know the way people behave on the
internet and it probably is how they
think in real life it probably like off
the internet i'm not saying people are
more segacious it probably is what's
going on in their minds anyway you know
that people will just say
no
and then they will concoct another more
obscure
more improbable like
more impossible to support theory
you know to justify their agenda to
justify their negative assumptions about
you anyway
yeah so sorry it's a funny comment so
someone says plot twist walmart in china
has all products made in the usa
well that's that's part of why that was
so funny to me was that they were trying
to prove like oh no like there's this
product in the background and you can
only get that in america that couldn't
be in a thing in china so sir i don't i
don't want to redo my own jokes on this
but like what do you really think so
what do you think if this was filmed in
america do you think i got a step ladder
and changed all the signs in walmart to
have chinese texts
like and then fill myself like what like
like
management work with me hey i want to do
a short film in this walmart do you want
to just go around and change all the
science to me chinese oh yeah and i
ordered a bunch of made in unique made
in china products that you don't have
here i'm going to put them on the shelf
and then fill myself right
you know
so by the way the the the bizarre
footnote to that story is indeed that
those rumors and those theories a lot of
them were linked to like
the theories from more than five years
ago now that i was secretly working for
the cia like everything's a cover story
everything's a conspiracy that i'm
secretly working to destroy veganism
from within you know all this all this
stuff
um
uh
this theory that i don't really know
chinese that i never really studied
chinese um that this is all a false
cover story
that was actually revived by the
incredibly stupid uh youtuber vegan foot
soldier all right
now
so look guys i'm 42 years old
i
am still unprepared to deal with this
level of stupidity i'm still getting
used to it you know what i mean now i
don't know about you guys i feel like
none of us are used to i was talking
about this with most yesterday i think
none of us are used to it and none of us
were prepared for it
because our parents didn't teach us this
our school teachers didn't teach us this
even television didn't teach us this
television and probably your parents and
probably your church pastor and probably
your school teachers they all give you
this vision
that the world is full of rational
highly effective
well-intentioned people
and you're not ready to deal with the
morass of humanity that's totally
irrational totally mean-spirited has no
generosity has no fish and is willing to
concoct the craziest theory about you
imaginable and dis disregard all the
evidence you have disregard everything
you've said and voice that and and tell
other people potentially thousands of
other people or millions other people on
the internet you know when they have
nothing to gain
they are willing to harm you
when they have nothing to gain
just because they enjoy
harming you and the saddest part of all
is i don't think they're even aware
that they enjoy it
you know so stick with the example for
one second okay guys i do see your i do
see your um your questions come in
when you look at a guy like vegan foot
soldier
you know
is he aware of his own malice
like does he actually think through
consciously that it makes him happy to
drag my name to the mud that he feels
better about himself
by going out and publicly claiming that
i've never studied chinese
like one of the questions i asked him is
have you tried googling my name plus the
word chinese like
so there's quite a lot of evidence out
there and again you get into a situation
like oh well that could be fake
yeah it could be like the the level of
effort it would take for me to have
faked my involvement with the study of
the chinese language would be so much
more than actually studying the chinese
language you know what i mean like
yeah like you know again if you just if
you just did a google search
i'm making the assertion here i i don't
think these people are extraordinary the
reason why this is so important to talk
about is that this is the new normal
this is now ordinary and maybe
200 years ago
maybe this was normal you just didn't
see the evidence of it because it wasn't
in writing on the internet you know i
have read i have read ancient literature
and i've read medieval literature and
i've read renaissance literature you
know what probably you could put
together some evidence about malicious
gossip and false persecution and
prosecution of people and so
probably there was some of this stuff
going on in human nature 200 years ago
people were put on trial for being a
witch on the basis of a ridiculous story
made up about their sex life and it was
the equivalent of reddit and facebook
you know it was the equivalent of of
youtube comments sections and uh
defamatory youtube videos and the things
the things we have to deal with but it's
not it's not recorded in the same way
even even in my late 30s even in my
early 40s all right
i am still
not prepared to deal with this level of
stupidity i am still
mean-spiritedness you know the casual
cruelty from people who have nothing to
gain by destroying my reputation or
defaming me making criminal allegations
against me or what have you you know and
and you know they're willing to do it
just for the process i was just talking
to people at the university about this
i try
to overcome hostility with kindness i
try again and again and again so you
know again this is kind of season one
isil i'm going to talk about from here
i'm not like this anymore i'm not i've
changed
you know
there was a professor at the university
uh here in victoria he's now retired
and you know this guy
i'll just say this he did terrible
unspeakable things to me that will
negatively impact me for the rest of my
life he used his authority to harm me
precisely when he should have used his
authority to help me and when he was
really contractually required to use his
authority to help me so i'm leaving it a
little bit vague
but you know i'm in a situation
university where i need help and on the
chain of command he's supposed to be the
guy who helps me and instead
[Music]
he pulls out some real jiggery pokery so
at that time i'd never met that
professor face to face we'd never talked
and i tell other professors because
there were several professors who really
were my friends i tell them look this is
the situation i'm in i don't know this
guy this other professor he's doing all
this stuff against like you know where
she goes
and all the other professors told me
two paraphrase this guy's completely
insane this guy's completely
he was he was an elderly professor as
mentioned he's now
these other professors they they
blackened this guy's character and they
had specific stories and specific
examples so if i were an easily
impressionable person this is kind of
like the internet right this is kind of
like youtube even though it's face to
face right you know oh this let me tell
you some of these professors that worked
with this guy for years
oh that guy he's really trouble
and i had different ways to kind of
i had different ways to escalate this
conflict and you know what i decided to
do i said you know what
i'm going to take all of this
i'm going to set it aside
and i'm going to conquer this guy with
kindness
never spoke to him never met him face to
face we kept trying to have a meeting
and it was gonna be like a mediated
meeting and it's like he's like okay
well we're gonna have a meeting i'm
gonna bring my lawyers and i'm gonna do
this i'm gonna do that and if you say
anything that's not
in this list of things to talk about my
lawyers are going to shut you down and
threaten you with this and that concept
like it was really seriously hostile
um
i did not find that intimidating because
my first university degree is in
political science i'm not that easy to
push around but this is really dark
and any normal 19 year old college kid
would be totally traumatized by this
forever you know i said you know what
so you know my experience
with this professor's negative i go talk
to other professors they all tell me
really bad things but you know what
i'm gonna set all that aside i'm gonna
go to the library and take out every
book this guy ever wrote or every
article he ever wrote and so on i'm
gonna read his stuff i'm going to get to
know him positively that way i'm going
to enroll in his class i'm going to be
the best student in this class
and i'm not going to mention this
conflict
i'm just going to go and be handsome and
brilliant and charming and i'm going to
overcome with kindness
i went to his class
maybe not the first day
but by like the second or third day he
was so appreciative that i was there and
he told me he told me on several
occasions that it meant so much to him
to have someone in the class who really
was reading the books that were assigned
these were small classes i know the
other students were not reading the book
and who really cared and he was really
interested and who asked questions that
were meaningful
he was like you know so i was his best
student in this sense no you know so
there's more than a way to invalid to to
evaluate a student i don't know if i got
the highest mark in the class it's
possible but you know i was his best
student
you know he appreciated lit up the class
he appreciate having someone to talk to
you and someone who did the reading and
someone who cared he he was so warm and
of course i did then go and have to meet
with him in his office
and he was crazy all right
um
i i really pitied him i was nice to him
i was wrong but he was he was crazy that
guy had problems all right
and i always remember you know this
i don't know
he's old school he's again he's an
elderly guy
but you know whenever he said something
really honest to me
like when he took me aside to tell me so
basically to apologize to me to tell me
look that that in that conflict we had
in the past that he had been wrong
you know he did it in the parking lot
what do you think i think there's a
listening device or something you know
like there's something i know some
people are like that so like okay we'll
go stand let's go stand in the parking
lot
so you know i did i did get a i did get
a kind of apology or a mea culpa from
him and i you know i overcame with
kindness and i'm saying this because i
recognize with all these people again
and again that's what i'm always trying
to do
and i gotta stop
i gotta change my way of living even
before the example of vegan foot soldier
there was vegan revolution there was joe
vegan there was vegan
you got to be old to remember vegan she
was big channel back in the day man
there were all these people where i was
so kind to them i was so forthcoming i
was so reasonable i was so rational i
was so giving i was so wrong i had real
generosity of spirit i spoke to them in
a charitable way right and what what did
they do back to me what are they showing
back oh this is not even mentioning
klaus
from plant-based news
[Music]
i encounter these people
and i'm really they're cruel to me that
is not an understatement they are
literally cruel to me and they engage in
even defamation campaigns against me and
even harassment campaigns against me but
including vegan foot soldier including
joe vegan all making up stories about
you know my financial situation and who
i really am and double
really crazy over the top and stuff
about my sex life too stuff of my
personal life
yes sorry
both no it's true they're two different
guys
sorry joe vegan and joe best and part of
the reason it's so confusing is that
later joe best changed his name to joe
vegan a vegan cheetah
but you know vegan foot soldier like you
know
it's like okay i'm going to take the
time and and i'm busy i'm busy right now
i was busy when i was living in couldn't
make china there are times in life and
i'm really busy
and like you send me a totally
unreasonable attack on my character that
is either based up based upon or backed
up by what some people say
on the internet
and then no matter how reasonable i'm
willing to be with you you're never
going to be reasonable back to me and no
matter how honest i am with you you were
gonna discount what i'm saying as
dishonest and concoct a theory as little
as those interactions hurt me because
they didn't hurt me
emotionally
as little as those interactions hurt me
they changed my view
of human nature
like
you get on the internet
and even if you think you're cynical i
mean i've been through a lot in my life
i'd been through cambodia i'd been
through laos i've been through hong kong
hong kong's a rough town doing its way
guys you know what i mean i've been
through
so much in my life
and then you get on youtube
and you have to face up to the awesome
implacable spectacle of human stupidity
as never before and you know look let's
be real when i was going to the
vegetable market in hong kong did i know
how stupid the little old lady was who
sold me the vegetables no
maybe she's brilliant maybe she's
highly intellectual and a highly ethical
person you don't know
maybe she's incredibly immoral
incredibly stupid incredibly mean
spirited person you don't know
in the midst of the cacophony of the
internet
you know
and i've got to tell you like
case by case instance by instance person
by person
what you have to face up to is the way
in which your own
expectations have changed and guys i
mean you can tell me you can tell me in
the audience
i don't think i'm the only one
like one of the things i notice is when
i first got on youtube
you could send an email to people there
used to be a messaging service within
youtube where one youtuber could message
each other
they write back to you
you know today
whether it's on youtube email or
instagram to max direct message all
right
you you either get no response at all
or their response is like
what is this about
you know there's this really guarded
response
and you know it's not any one thing
i think each and every one of these
people has been through
a similar sequence of
defamatory events
where you know they talked they were
generous and open and warm and honest
with somebody on the internet
and then what did they get
in return and when you have the
experience of
no matter how much kindness i show you
you're never going to reciprocate with
that basic effort to be reasonable
you're never going to be
charitable in your questions
charitable doesn't mean you assume the
best about me it doesn't mean you assume
i'm an angel you know but let's really
think about what being charitable means
to question somebody with charitable
assumptions or even to criticize them
with charitable assumptions that's a
virtue we didn't have to nail down
before maybe because none of us were
really being honest with ourselves about
how dark
uh human nature really is
[Applause]
[Music]
oh
no
[Music]
my
[Applause]
do
[Music]
you